Documentation/config/extensions.adoc, before:

extensions.*::
	Unless otherwise stated, is an error to specify an extension if
	`core.repositoryFormatVersion` is not `1`. See
	linkgit:gitrepository-layout[5].
+
compatObjectFormat:::
	Specify a compatibility hash algorithm to use.  The acceptable values
	are `sha1` and `sha256`.  The value specified must be different from the
	value of `extensions.objectFormat`.  This allows client level
	interoperability between git repositories whose objectFormat matches
	this compatObjectFormat.  In particular when fully implemented the
	pushes and pulls from a repository in whose objectFormat matches
	compatObjectFormat.  As well as being able to use oids encoded in
	compatObjectFormat in addition to oids encoded with objectFormat to
	locally specify objects.
+
Note that the functionality enabled by this extension is incomplete and subject
to change.  It currently exists only to allow development and testing of
the underlying feature and is not designed to be enabled by end users.

noop:::
	This extension does not change git's behavior at all. It is useful only
	for testing format-1 compatibility.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

noop-v1:::
	This extension does not change git's behavior at all. It is useful only
	for testing format-1 compatibility.

objectFormat:::
	Specify the hash algorithm to use.  The acceptable values are `sha1` and
	`sha256`.  If not specified, `sha1` is assumed.
+
Note that this setting should only be set by linkgit:git-init[1] or
linkgit:git-clone[1].  Trying to change it after initialization will not
work and will produce hard-to-diagnose issues.

partialClone:::
	When enabled, indicates that the repo was created with a partial clone
	(or later performed a partial fetch) and that the remote may have
	omitted sending certain unwanted objects.  Such a remote is called a
	"promisor remote" and it promises that all such omitted objects can
	be fetched from it in the future.
+
The value of this key is the name of the promisor remote.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

preciousObjects:::
	If enabled, indicates that objects in the repository MUST NOT be deleted
	(e.g., by `git-prune` or `git repack -d`).
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

refStorage:::
	Specify the ref storage format to use. The acceptable values are:
+
--
include::../ref-storage-format.adoc[]
--
+
Note that this setting should only be set by linkgit:git-init[1] or
linkgit:git-clone[1]. Trying to change it after initialization will not
work and will produce hard-to-diagnose issues.

relativeWorktrees:::
	If enabled, indicates at least one worktree has been linked with
	relative paths. Automatically set if a worktree has been created or
	repaired with either the `--relative-paths` option or with the
	`worktree.useRelativePaths` config set to `true`.

worktreeConfig:::
	If enabled, then worktrees will load config settings from the
	`$GIT_DIR/config.worktree` file in addition to the
	`$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config` file. Note that `$GIT_COMMON_DIR` and
	`$GIT_DIR` are the same for the main working tree, while other
	working trees have `$GIT_DIR` equal to
	`$GIT_COMMON_DIR/worktrees/<id>/`. The settings in the
	`config.worktree` file will override settings from any other
	config files.
+
When enabling this extension, you must be careful to move
certain values from the common config file to the main working tree's
`config.worktree` file, if present:
+
--
* `core.worktree` must be moved from `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config` to
  `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config.worktree`.
* If `core.bare` is true, then it must be moved from `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config`
  to `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config.worktree`.
--
+
It may also be beneficial to adjust the locations of `core.sparseCheckout`
and `core.sparseCheckoutCone` depending on your desire for customizable
sparse-checkout settings for each worktree. By default, the `git
sparse-checkout` builtin enables this extension, assigns
these config values on a per-worktree basis, and uses the
`$GIT_DIR/info/sparse-checkout` file to specify the sparsity for each
worktree independently. See linkgit:git-sparse-checkout[1] for more
details.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

Commit message:

hook: introduce extensions.hookStdoutToStderr
All hooks already redirect stdout to stderr with the exception of
pre-push which has a known user who depends on the separate stdout
versus stderr outputs (the git-lfs project).

The pre-push behavior was a surprise which we found out about after
causing a regression for git-lfs. Notably, it might not be the only
exception (it's the one we know about). There might be more.

This presents a challenge because stdout_to_stderr is required for
hook parallelization, so run-command can buffer and de-interleave
the hook outputs using ungroup=0, when hook.jobs > 1.

Introduce an extension to enforce consistency: all hooks merge stdout
into stderr and can be safely parallelized. This provides a clean
separation and avoids breaking existing stdout vs stderr behavior.

When this extension is disabled, the `hook.jobs` config has no
effect for pre-push, to prevent garbled (interleaved) parallel
output, so it runs sequentially like before.

Alternatives I've considered to this extension include:
1. Allowing pre-push to run in parallel with interleaved output.
2. Always running pre-push sequentially (no parallel jobs for it).
3. Making users (only git-lfs? maybe more?) fix their hooks to read
   stderr not stdout.

Out of all these alternatives, I think this extension is the most
reasonable compromise, to not break existing users, allow pre-push
parallel jobs for those who need it (with correct outputs) and also
future-proofing in case there are any more exceptions to be added.

Signed-off-by: Adrian Ratiu <adrian.ratiu@collabora.com>
Signed-off-by: Junio C Hamano <gitster@pobox.com>

Documentation/config/extensions.adoc, after:

extensions.*::
	Unless otherwise stated, is an error to specify an extension if
	`core.repositoryFormatVersion` is not `1`. See
	linkgit:gitrepository-layout[5].
+
compatObjectFormat:::
	Specify a compatibility hash algorithm to use.  The acceptable values
	are `sha1` and `sha256`.  The value specified must be different from the
	value of `extensions.objectFormat`.  This allows client level
	interoperability between git repositories whose objectFormat matches
	this compatObjectFormat.  In particular when fully implemented the
	pushes and pulls from a repository in whose objectFormat matches
	compatObjectFormat.  As well as being able to use oids encoded in
	compatObjectFormat in addition to oids encoded with objectFormat to
	locally specify objects.
+
Note that the functionality enabled by this extension is incomplete and subject
to change.  It currently exists only to allow development and testing of
the underlying feature and is not designed to be enabled by end users.

noop:::
	This extension does not change git's behavior at all. It is useful only
	for testing format-1 compatibility.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

noop-v1:::
	This extension does not change git's behavior at all. It is useful only
	for testing format-1 compatibility.

objectFormat:::
	Specify the hash algorithm to use.  The acceptable values are `sha1` and
	`sha256`.  If not specified, `sha1` is assumed.
+
Note that this setting should only be set by linkgit:git-init[1] or
linkgit:git-clone[1].  Trying to change it after initialization will not
work and will produce hard-to-diagnose issues.

partialClone:::
	When enabled, indicates that the repo was created with a partial clone
	(or later performed a partial fetch) and that the remote may have
	omitted sending certain unwanted objects.  Such a remote is called a
	"promisor remote" and it promises that all such omitted objects can
	be fetched from it in the future.
+
The value of this key is the name of the promisor remote.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

preciousObjects:::
	If enabled, indicates that objects in the repository MUST NOT be deleted
	(e.g., by `git-prune` or `git repack -d`).
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.

refStorage:::
	Specify the ref storage format to use. The acceptable values are:
+
--
include::../ref-storage-format.adoc[]
--
+
Note that this setting should only be set by linkgit:git-init[1] or
linkgit:git-clone[1]. Trying to change it after initialization will not
work and will produce hard-to-diagnose issues.

relativeWorktrees:::
	If enabled, indicates at least one worktree has been linked with
	relative paths. Automatically set if a worktree has been created or
	repaired with either the `--relative-paths` option or with the
	`worktree.useRelativePaths` config set to `true`.

hookStdoutToStderr:::
	If enabled, the stdout of all hooks is redirected to stderr. This
	enforces consistency, since by default most hooks already behave
	this way, with pre-push being the only known exception.
+
This is useful for parallel hook execution (see the `hook.jobs` config in
linkgit:git-config[1]), as it allows the output of multiple hooks running
in parallel to be grouped (de-interleaved) correctly.
+
Defaults to disabled. When disabled, `hook.jobs` has no effect for pre-push
hooks, which will always be run sequentially.

worktreeConfig:::
	If enabled, then worktrees will load config settings from the
	`$GIT_DIR/config.worktree` file in addition to the
	`$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config` file. Note that `$GIT_COMMON_DIR` and
	`$GIT_DIR` are the same for the main working tree, while other
	working trees have `$GIT_DIR` equal to
	`$GIT_COMMON_DIR/worktrees/<id>/`. The settings in the
	`config.worktree` file will override settings from any other
	config files.
+
When enabling this extension, you must be careful to move
certain values from the common config file to the main working tree's
`config.worktree` file, if present:
+
--
* `core.worktree` must be moved from `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config` to
  `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config.worktree`.
* If `core.bare` is true, then it must be moved from `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config`
  to `$GIT_COMMON_DIR/config.worktree`.
--
+
It may also be beneficial to adjust the locations of `core.sparseCheckout`
and `core.sparseCheckoutCone` depending on your desire for customizable
sparse-checkout settings for each worktree. By default, the `git
sparse-checkout` builtin enables this extension, assigns
these config values on a per-worktree basis, and uses the
`$GIT_DIR/info/sparse-checkout` file to specify the sparsity for each
worktree independently. See linkgit:git-sparse-checkout[1] for more
details.
+
For historical reasons, this extension is respected regardless of the
`core.repositoryFormatVersion` setting.
