Documentation/git-hook.adoc, before:

git-hook(1)
===========

NAME
----
git-hook - Run git hooks

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'git hook' run [--ignore-missing] [--to-stdin=<path>] <hook-name> [-- <hook-args>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

A command interface for running git hooks (see linkgit:githooks[5]),
for use by other scripted git commands.

SUBCOMMANDS
-----------

run::
	Run the `<hook-name>` hook. See linkgit:githooks[5] for
	supported hook names.
+

Any positional arguments to the hook should be passed after a
mandatory `--` (or `--end-of-options`, see linkgit:gitcli[7]). See
linkgit:githooks[5] for arguments hooks might expect (if any).

OPTIONS
-------

--to-stdin::
	For "run"; specify a file which will be streamed into the
	hook's stdin. The hook will receive the entire file from
	beginning to EOF.

--ignore-missing::
	Ignore any missing hook by quietly returning zero. Used for
	tools that want to do a blind one-shot run of a hook that may
	or may not be present.

SEE ALSO
--------
linkgit:githooks[5]

GIT
---
Part of the linkgit:git[1] suite

Commit message:

hook: introduce "git hook list"
If more than one hook will be run, it may be useful to see a list of
which hooks should be run. At very least, it will be useful for us to
test the semantics of multihooks ourselves.

For now, only list the hooks which will run in the order they will run
in; later, it might be useful to include more information like where the
hooks were configured and whether or not they will run.

Signed-off-by: Emily Shaffer <emilyshaffer@google.com>
Signed-off-by: Adrian Ratiu <adrian.ratiu@collabora.com>
Signed-off-by: Junio C Hamano <gitster@pobox.com>

Documentation/git-hook.adoc, after:

git-hook(1)
===========

NAME
----
git-hook - Run git hooks

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'git hook' run [--ignore-missing] [--to-stdin=<path>] <hook-name> [-- <hook-args>]
'git hook' list <hook-name>

DESCRIPTION
-----------

A command interface for running git hooks (see linkgit:githooks[5]),
for use by other scripted git commands.

SUBCOMMANDS
-----------

run::
	Run the `<hook-name>` hook. See linkgit:githooks[5] for
	supported hook names.
+

Any positional arguments to the hook should be passed after a
mandatory `--` (or `--end-of-options`, see linkgit:gitcli[7]). See
linkgit:githooks[5] for arguments hooks might expect (if any).

list::
	Print a list of hooks which will be run on `<hook-name>` event. If no
	hooks are configured for that event, print nothing and return 1.

OPTIONS
-------

--to-stdin::
	For "run"; specify a file which will be streamed into the
	hook's stdin. The hook will receive the entire file from
	beginning to EOF.

--ignore-missing::
	Ignore any missing hook by quietly returning zero. Used for
	tools that want to do a blind one-shot run of a hook that may
	or may not be present.

SEE ALSO
--------
linkgit:githooks[5]

GIT
---
Part of the linkgit:git[1] suite
